[19778][20296] Add netmask filter transport configuration + interface allowlist and blocklist (#659)
eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs: docs/fastdds/transport/interfaces.rst

.. include:: ../../03-exports/aliases.include
.. include:: ../../03-exports/aliases-api.include
.. include:: ../../03-exports/roles.include

.. _ifaces_config:

Interfaces configuration
========================

By default, *Fast DDS* makes use of all active network interfaces found in the system to communicate (note: applies to
:ref:`transport_udp_udp` and :ref:`transport_tcp_tcp`).
However, it is possible for a user to indicate a specific set of network interfaces to be used by the library,
and/or configure some of them in a specific manner.

> 

Author: I moved the footer to the beginning, ok with that?

   * - |NetmaskFilterKind::OFF-api|
     - Disable netmask filtering.
   * - |NetmaskFilterKind::AUTO-api|
     - Use container's netmask filter configuration.

An |NetmaskFilterKind::AUTO-api| netmask filter configuration means that its effective value will be given by that of
its "container", which in the case of an :ref:`allowlist <interfaces_allowlist>` entry would be the transport descriptor
where it is included, and in the case of a transport descriptor would be the participant where it is registered.

Note however that not all configurations are valid; this is, for example, a transport's netmask filter configuration
cannot be |NetmaskFilterKind::OFF-api| if it is |NetmaskFilterKind::ON-api| for the participant where this transport
is registered.
Likewise, the netmask filter configuration for an allowlist entry cannot be |NetmaskFilterKind::ON-api| if it is
|NetmaskFilterKind::OFF-api| for the transport descriptor where this allowlist is defined.

Due to implementation details, it is required to set `ignore_non_matching_locators` to `true`
(see :ref:`Matching algorithm <external_locators_algorithm>`) both in :ref:`participants <wireprotocolconfigqos>`

> and :ref:`endpoints <rtpsendpointqos>` when enabling the netmask filtering feature at participant/transport level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and :ref:`endpoints <rtpsendpointqos>` when enabling the netmask filtering feature at participant or transport level
```

without defining an allowlist.

Additional considerations need to be taken into account when using netmask filtering in combination with
:ref:`external locators <external_locators>`.
In particular, it is not possible to enable netmask filtering in all entries of an allowlist when a set of local

> external locators (at externality greater than `0`) is defined for a :ref:`participant <wireprotocolconfigqos>` or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
external locators (with an *externality* greater than `0`) is defined for a :ref:`participant <wireprotocolconfigqos>` or
```

:ref:`endpoint <rtpsendpointqos>`.
The reason for this is that a matching remote external locator would then (most likely) be effectively ignored, as no
network interface would be able to reach it according to its network mask.

Netmask filtering can be enabled both via C++ API or XML configuration.
In the case of participants, the netmask filter configuration is set in C++ as follows:

.. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
  :language: c++
  :start-after: //CONF-NETMASK-FILTER
  :end-before: //!--
  :lines: 3-4
  :dedent: 8

> See :ref:`RTPS` for an example on how to configure netmask filtering for a participant through an XML profile.

Reviewer: It could be really helpful opening another tab here with the XML participant profile example

> For socket (UDP/TCP) transport descriptors:

Reviewer: A question that comes to me is whether we should include setting the `ignore_non_matching_locators` to `true` in all the examples `C++/XML` of the page

Author: Maybe I should make the paragraph explaining this a note or warning?

Reviewer: Yes! I think we should make a note on this
